[MUSIC PLAYING]
SCOTT DEGENHART: I was
awakened by this Spirit that
zoomed right over from my
feet, over the top of me,
and hovered on the left side
of my bed at my shoulders.
It was sort of a
glowing, misty cloud
is the best way to describe it.
RAYMOND BOWMAN: And
out of the light
a voice said to me, "Fear not.
Sometimes God has to take the
best flower in the garden."
JOAN WESTER ANDERSON:
32 degrees below
zero the middle of the
night, and they just
sat on the side of
the road with no place
to run, no lights
in the distance,
and realized they were probably
going to freeze to death.
DONALD SPANN: One of
the fears I've had
is drowning all my life.
I was thinking about my
family, my wife, my children,
how they were going to take this
news that I was lost at sea.
JOCELYN: I was crying,
and she was crying.
We're both really scared,
and to try to keep ourselves
from going too crazy
or from freaking out,
we started praying.
And we started
singing praise songs.
It's my angel.
That's why I haven't been
afraid the last few minutes.
My guardian angel
came to help me.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): They
are endless, these stories
of unexplained rescues,
of spiritual beings
that appear in times of need.
These heroes that
offer their aid, then
mysteriously disappear.
These miracle happenings
are part of every culture
on the Earth, in every
recorded span of history.
In fact, it's likely that you
have such a story hanging out
there somewhere in
your memory, something
strange and unexplainable
happened, from an intuition
that came at just
the right moment,
to a strange coincidence that
changed the path of your life
to a stunning miracle.
Something happened.
You know it happened.
But how?
Why?
My name is Pam Kidd, a regular
name, a regular person, a wife,
a mom, someone's
daughter, someone's
neighbor, someone's friend.
I write magazine
articles for a living.
One day I told my editor
about an unusual thing that
had happened to me,
which I believed
to be an angelic encounter.
It led to a research
assignment in which I spoke
to many people who
claimed to have had
an experience with an angel.
My story begins as a mystery
of sorts, an event that took
place the night my father died.
Three years passed
before this mystery,
this unexplained happening
was finally solved.
When the solution came,
it completely changed
my understanding of
things seen, as well
as things that we
cannot see in this
strange and wonderful world.
This is my story.
In it, you'll probably
discover a story of your own.
My husband, David, first heard
the news over the telephone
from a coroner in the
town where my father died.
Within hours, we
were at my parents'
home in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
We were literally
numb with grief.
After hours of sitting
with my mother,
there was nothing else
left to do But go to bed.
Exhausted, both David and
I fell into a deep sleep.
During the night I
awoke with a start.
Someone was in the room.
I was sure of it.
I was frightened, but
as quietly as I could,
I turned my head
toward the place
where I knew the
intruder was standing.
I could see nothing
but darkness, yet, I
noticed something.
I smelled flowers,
wonderful flowers,
heavy with the
sweetness of roses.
And then the presence was gone.
I slipped out of bed,
went to my mother's room
and told her what had happened.
She wanted to discover
the source of the visitor
with the flowers just
as much as I did.
We searched every
room in the house.
No where could we find even a
hint to the smell of flowers.
For some unexplainable
reason through
the next difficult days,
I was surrounded with
this strange sense of peace.
Somehow the visiting
with the flowers
had brought me a
very clear message.
I was not alone.
I thought of the incident often
over the next years wondering,
but still no explanation came.
Then, out of the blue,
an old Mexican man
who served as our guide as we
visited Mexico City was sharing
the history of an ornate
angel figure we had
just admired inside a church.
And of course you know, I
remember hearing him say,
when angels visit
the Earth, they
sometimes announce
their presence
with the smell of flowers.
When angels visit.
I couldn't get the
thought out of my mind.
Back home I read
everything about angels
that I could get my hands on.
Joan Wester Anderson, author
of "Where Angels Walk,"
began her own research after
personally experiencing
a supernatural rescue.
Being a person who
was strongly spiritual,
I had no bias against angels.
It was just that I never
really thought of them
as getting involved
in Earth to the extent
that I later learned they do.
It was kind of a
nice thought, but not
anything specific to me.
I felt if you're going to
pray, you just go right to God.
You don't need all
the rest of this stuff
kind of hanging around.
And then my son, Tim, who at
the time was 21 years old,
had an experience that kind
of changed all that for me.
He was coming from
Connecticut to Chicago
to be with us at Christmas.
And, of course, my husband
had called the boys a few days
before the journey
began to say, don't
come because the
Midwest is going
through this terrible
temperature drop.
The interstates
were being closed
because this high wind
was blowing the snow,
and it was very dangerous.
And, of course, the
kids kind of laughed,
well, weather warnings
are for old people.
You know, we're 21 years
old, were invincible,
we can get through the mountains
with no problem at all.
And that's what they
proceeded to do,
except they broke down
outside of Fort Wayne, Indiana
on one of these
deserted access roads.
32 degrees below zero,
the middle of the night,
and they just sat on the side
of the road with no place
to run, no lights
in the distance,
and realized they were probably
going to freeze to death.
And then all of a sudden,
as Tim described it to me,
there was a tow truck there.
They saw this flare
of light behind them.
They hadn't seen this approach.
It was just there.
The guy got out, he didn't seem
real surprised to see them.
He hitched them up kind
of without talking much,
took them to a place of
safety in Fort Wayne.
And when they got out of
the car and turned around
to ask him how much
the bill would be,
there was no truck there.
And there were no tracks
in the snow leading
away from where the boys stood.
Now when Tim told me that, I
got goosebumps, and I said Tim,
I need to know what
time that man came.
And Tim said, well,
that I know for sure.
He came at a quarter
to 2:00 AM, because I
just looked at my watch.
Well, at a quarter
to 1:00, I had
been standing by the
front window saying, God,
you've got to send someone.
You have to send someone
to help the kids.
It's Christmas.
God, you've got to send someone.
I don't normally
give God orders,
but I was just doing it
then with such intensity.
That was a quarter to 1:00
and, of course, Tim was
still on Eastern Standard Time.
So I was left with
the-- the realization
that at the very
moment I had said,
God, you have to send
someone, God did.
But who had sent?
And as a journalist, I
knew the ways to research.
And, of course, I went
back on the trail,
and I had called the
Highway Patrol, no, they
had had no rescue vehicles out.
That was before the
days of cellular phones,
and so they would not have
allowed any of their people
to cruise the
roads, because they
could've gotten in trouble.
I called several tow truck
services, they laughed at me.
Why would a driver be
leaving the safety of town
on a bitterly cold
and dangerous night?
No, they had had no calls.
So the trail dried up
as I should have known
that it would,
because angels don't
leave very many calling cards.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER):
The more I read,
and the more I
researched, the more I
discovered similar
accounts of people
who were convinced
that angels had come
to them in their time of need.
Proof that angels exist?
Hardly.
Comforting?
Yes.
All I know is that in my own
case, someone came into my room
the night my father died
and brought flowers,
not only to sooth my soul,
but to convince me that I
was not alone in my grief.
And over and over, I heard
stories of people whose
angelic encounters
were accompanied
by the fragrance of flowers.
JOHN RONNOR: Well, this reminds
me of a story of a Mississippi
woman who was befriended
as a sickly child
by a loving uncle who later
made himself known years
after his death to
her by overpowering
her house with the fragrance
of magnolia blossoms, which he
had brought to her as a child.
TEDDY BART: We are back.
You're listening to a special
"Beyond Reason" program today.
We're going to be
talking about the subject
that people are fascinated
with all over the world.
The subject today is Angels, our
guest, John Ronnor, the author
of "Do You Have a
Guardian Angel?"
It's nice to see you again.
Oh, it's nice to be back,
Teddy, real pleasure.
TEDDY BART: Have you
investigated-- I mean,
if somebody calls you and
says, my car was stranded,
there was nobody
around to help me.
All of a sudden somebody
showed up driving a tow truck.
I mean, do you
investigate to find
out if this wasn't the AAA?
JOHN RONNOR: I do follow
up on stories, right.
In many cases, it is difficult
to nail the story down,
because in some cases you
have a subjective experience
on the part of one person.
But sometimes there is
circumstantial evidence.
Sometimes there's multiple
witnesses to an event.
This could give rise
to some suspicion
that this was more
than just subjectivity.
TEDDY BART: Let's
go to the phones.
Mary Ellen, hi, you're
on "Beyond Reason."
MARY ELLEN (ON PHONE): Hi.
How are you?
MARY ELLEN (ON PHONE):
I'm fine, thanks.
Nice to talk to you.
MARY ELLEN (ON
PHONE): Thank you.
Tell us about your
angel encounter.
MARY ELLEN (ON PHONE):
Well, this happened
when my son was an infant.
And I was walking him
in his baby carriage,
and I came to a corner
on a busy street.
And I was letting the
carriage down onto the road,
because there was a curb there.
And I heard a voice, a
very commanding voice,
tell me, put the carriage back
on the sidewalk, which I did.
I didn't hesitate,
it startled me so.
And when I got him back
up on the sidewalk,
I stepped back a little
bit and immediately
a trailer truck turned down
the street that I was crossing.
And I hadn't seen the truck.
He was going too fast, and
he cut the corner so sharp
that his wheels came
up right over the curb,
and just missed me
and the baby carriage.
And I was so startled that I
watched this thing happening.
It was sort of surreal.
And I looked around to
see who had said to me,
"put the carriage back,"
and there was nobody there.
So needless to say,
I was a bit shook up.
I didn't think at the
moment that it was an angel,
but I felt it was something
certainly unusual.
TEDDY BART: That's
a lovely story.
FEMALE RADIO HOST: That's
a remarkable story.
I'm just curious,
Mary Ellen, has
your life changed from that?
Have you gone back
to your normal life?
Did it affect you in any
way from that point on?
MARY ELLEN (ON PHONE):
I felt for an instant,
I thought how mortal we are.
How quickly something
can happen to just,
you know, end your life.
The other thing
that it did or me,
is as I went through other
crisis later in my life,
I really believe it gave
me a little more strength
to believe that a miracle can
happen, or things can work out.
TEDDY BART: Thank you
for telling your story.
MARY ELLEN (ON
PHONE): Your welcome.
TEDDY BART: It's beautiful.
Bye, bye.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER):
As I read more
and more of these angel stories,
something else happened.
All those loose
ends from my past,
and you probably know
what I'm talking about,
those events that neither you
nor I can find an explanation
for, so we file them
under unbelievable luck
or strange coincidences,
or it was a miracle.
All those loose ends that
have lingered over the years
to become misfits
in our memories.
These same kinds of experiences
kept cropping up in my research
as universal angel stories.
CANDACE EMERSON: It
was the spring of 1961.
I was eight or nine
years old, and I had gone
outside to play on the carport.
And through the
winter, my parents
had cut down a number of
trees on our property,
and had stacked the
wood on our carport
creating a large wood pile.
And it stood probably seven
or eight feet from the ground.
So I climbed up on
the wood pile to play.
And as I climbed up on the
wood pile, I lost my balance
and began to fall over
backwards head first
off the back of this wood pile.
And strong hands came
up and literally pushed
me back up on top of that wood
pile and kept me from falling.
And when I turned
around, I expected
to see my mother and my dad,
that they had been behind me,
and had seen me begin to
fall, and had run to my rescue
to keep me from hurting myself.
But when I turn around,
there was no one there.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): A
helping hand out of nowhere.
Joan Wester Anderson interviewed
a prominent businessmen
who also received a helping hand
in his time of desperate need.
Donald Spann was
one of the people
that wrote to me
after the publication
of "Where Angels Walk."
I loved it, because it
had all the elements
of a good angel story in it.
It showed people I thought that,
no, angel experiences don't
just happen to saints or
people who are on their knees
all the time.
They happen to ordinary people.
People who God is calling.
And that was a call for Don.
So he fell off a boat.
He was not wearing
a life preserver.
He who preached safety to all of
his employees with a vengeance
was out on a craft
without wearing
a life preserver of his own.
He was the only
passenger in the boat.
It was his boat, and
his driver continued
on not realizing
that Don had fallen
out of the back of the boat.
And if any of you listening to
me have been around the, ocean
you know that's
serious business.
And to be 20 miles offshore in
what the depth finder that just
a few minutes before told me
it was about 80 feet of water,
you're in with fish
that are big enough
to consider you part
of the food chain,
and I know to be
nervous about that.
I didn't have a knife.
I didn't have a weapon.
I didn't have anything
to help me out.
I didn't have on a pair of long
pants to cross-tie the legs
and use for flotation.
I'd been out there,
I don't know,
I'm going to say 45 minutes.
I was thinking about
my family, my wife,
my children, how they're
going to take this news
that I was lost at sea.
And when Don realized that he
was probably going to drown,
one of the first
things he did was pray.
It's such a temptation to say,
God, if you'll just get me out
of this jam I'm in
right now, I'll be
a good boy the rest of my life.
I realize that's bargaining
with God, and I couldn't do it,
no matter if I died and
I was totally desperate.
I'd still could not bargain.
And so I prayed to God, if it
is Thy will, and if I'm allowed,
may I have your permission,
God, that I get just
one foot on the sandy beach.
And then if I fall
over dead, that's fine,
but please don't take me
this way if I may ask.
And then there was an
element that I don't find
in too many of the
stories, but I think
it occurs more than we know.
And that was Don ran
into the darkness.
He had a temptation
in the water.
He had a voice come that
was not a heavenly voice,
and he knew it.
And then suddenly, this same
voice came back the third time
and it was angry.
It was a higher pitch, and
it was right in my right ear
and echoing.
And this voice said, it
called my name again,
and it called John T's name
for the first time, "Don,
John T is not going
to come back,"
that he's not going
to turn around.
And I knew that was wrong.
I knew he would at least turn
around when he missed me.
He would not go on
to Fort Lauderdale
and report me lost at sea.
He would turn around, and I
knew that was not the truth.
So it made me very angry.
And when he told me to give
up-- this was the third time--
to give up and slide on
down, it wouldn't hurt,
I kind of looked up over
here, and I said, "Look here,
I've told you that I'm going
to swim all day and all night.
I said if I'm 10
feet under the water,
I'm still going to be
moving my arms and legs."
I said, "You got that, Fella?"
And at that point, I was
embarrassed, because I realized
I was talking to a voice.
I'm by myself out there.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER):
Miraculously, after remaining
adrift for what felt
like an eternity,
Don Spann had managed
to stay afloat,
while his companion, John
T, searched the open seas.
And all of a sudden I
heard this deep rumble,
blum, blum, blum, blum.
And it was the exhaust
sound of a boat.
And that was old Perseverance,
that was my boat.
I knew her sound.
And so I got thrilled, but I
was on my back to save energy.
And I said, don't turnover yet,
don't turn over yet, not yet.
And finally I said, roll
over now, and I rolled over
and there she was.
And I had to figure out
a way to get out the way
and still be seen,
because it's so
hard to find anybody or anything
in the ocean specifically.
If you stop and think about
my little ole coconut head
was the only thing sticking up.
For an eight mile
radius, how are you going
to find something this small?
And he looked my way three
times and didn't see me.
And I was getting
discouraged, and he
was coming at 11,
10:30, 10 o'clock
and was getting quicker.
And then all of a sudden, I
saw John T lower the glasses
and put them back
up, lower them,
and then the hollered, "Don."
And I said, oh,
thank God he sees me.
And I kind of rolled over, and
I went partially blacked out.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): Then in
a nearly tragic twist of fate,
the hull of the boat that
was about to rescue Don,
pushed him under the water,
and he began to sink.
DONALD MANN: And I started
sliding down towards the center
of the boat and back
away, because I drifted
at a different rate
than what the boat
was drifting on the surface.
And there was a light
over here to the left,
and I knew there was no
sunshine a moment before.
And it was like a
filtered yellow light.
It looked like I was looking
through a pitcher of tea.
And I was trying to pull
on the rope to get myself
to the boat with my left hand.
I just didn't have the
strength to move anything else.
All of a sudden,
kaploosh, and it
looked just the same as when
you're in a swimming pool
and you see a million bubbles
up there when somebody
jumps in on top of you.
And I witnessed that,
and then I thought don't
fight John T. Let him help you.
And I felt a hand on my bicep,
and then a separate hand
on my forearm.
And I didn't figure out, I
said, how's he going to help
me get to the boat like that?
All of a sudden, I felt
hands on my shoulder blades,
and I went straight
to the ladder,
just like I belonged
there, like a magnet.
But I couldn't get my leg
up on that bottom rung,
which was right about my waist.
I just didn't have the strength.
And that takes
strength on a good day
if you're having a good time.
It's still a tough
job to get up.
And I was trying to
get my foot up there,
and all a sudden, I felt a hand
on my calf and one on my ankle.
And it placed my
foot up there for me,
and then I felt
hands under my hiney.
And up I went just like
I was on a hydraulic lift
of some kind or another.
I just stood up.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): Don was
whisked to the nearest hospital
and treated for
exposure and exhaustion.
It was only then that
he began to fully
understand the implications
of his miraculous rescue.
John T comes in, I give
John T the biggest hug going.
You can't pay somebody
for saving your life.
What do you say to somebody?
There's no words.
They're not.
Just thank you is
not good enough.
And then, after we
greeted each other,
and he told me this went from
the worst day of his life
to the best day of his
life all in the same day,
I said John T you
scared me half to death.
Why did you jump in the water?
He said what are
you talking about?
I said, well, I saw you jump in,
and you grabbed a hold of me.
He said, Don, what
you talking about?
I never left the boat.
Well, it hit me like
a ton of bricks.
All the pieces of the puzzle
suddenly came together.
This voice that I heard
three times in the ocean,
I actually heard four times.
That first time was you're
going out of the boat
this morning, fella.
And if I heard that voice this
second, I would recognize it.
It was-- as far
as I'm concerned,
it was the devil himself.
The helping me to the
boat was the opposite end
of the spectrum.
Jesus' will was for his guardian
angels to help me some way,
some-- I don't know
why, but they did.
And I got help to that boat.
I call it a blessing.
I've experienced the
hands on of a guardian
angel, more than one.
John, I'm curious,
are there patterns,
are there consistencies as
to whom these angels help?
That brings up a really
touchy point there,
because a lot of people feel
bad if they've had a tragedy
and there was no spiritual
intervention to help them.
And they might say to
themselves, well, why me?
Is God mad at me or something?
And I've never seen any
indication that that
could possibly be true.
But answering the
question of why do angels
go on vacation, as I call it?
Why was Steven stoned
in the book of Acts,
but just a couple of
chapters down Peter was
freed by an angel, you know.
There have been--
the philosophers
have not been able to settle
that one in thousands of years
of wrestling with the question.
They have come up
with a few theories.
Some people feel that
the theory of karma
might be an explanation, the
idea that what we put out
in the world comes back to
us, reverberates back to us
in some fashion or form.
Some people have
pointed out that, well,
our natural abilities vary
from person to person.
Some people take to a foreign
language like a duck to water.
Other people stumble tongue-tied
trying to learn it for years.
Some people, by this
token, some people
may be more psychically gifted
and may be able to communicate.
It may be that the angels
are trying to get through
in all instances, but in
some cases they get through,
and in other cases, they
just can't be picked up.
JOAN WESTER ANDERSON:
People say, well,
what makes the difference?
Why do angels come
sometimes and not others?
Well, I don't know.
But I do know that a lot
of times we don't ask.
The Bible says you have
not because you ask not.
It's so typical.
I mean, we don't think that
we can bring about a change
from a spiritual point of
view, and so we don't even try.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER):
Jocelyn Vaile and a friend
found themselves stranded
on a mountaintop in Uruguay,
and they did ask for help.
We had been up there for,
I guess, a couple of hours.
And we looked down and saw that
the bus that brought us there
along with the rest of
our group was pulling off,
and it was leaving.
We didn't know if they had
left anybody there to find us.
We didn't know if they even
knew that we were there.
And it was at this point
that we both really panicked.
I was crying and she was crying.
We were both really scared.
And to try to keep ourselves
from going too crazy
or from freaking out,
we started praying,
and we started
singing praise songs.
So we tried just
climbing down for a while
and that got to be too hard.
And so what we would finally
do is just place ourselves
between two boulders,
kind of on the ground,
and kind of like, scoot
forward a little bit,
like a kid on a slide and
push ourselves forward some.
And that worked.
It was getting us
towards the bottom.
And so we were relieved.
We finally had something, you
know, some way that we were
going to get to the bottom.
After we've been doing that
for about half an hour,
just sliding down, this
man walks up to us.
He was a young man, and my
friend I thought, oh, good,
finally, somebody can
show us the way down.
And so we're yelling ayuda,
ayuda, and pointing down.
That was the one word we
could think of in Spanish.
It means help.
And so we're yelling
ayuda, ayuda,
and pointing down, and crying,
and screaming, and everything.
The man took my hand,
and he took her hand
and started leading
us to the left.
And we just stopped, and
we said, no, that way.
And again started saying ayuda,
ayuda, and pointing down.
And he just kind of
nodded and took our hands
and kept leading us to the left.
And he lead us to the
left for quite some way.
And I didn't think
anything of it at the time,
because it wasn't very far
after that, he started,
finally, leading us down.
And we're thinking,
well, finally,
he's figured out
what we want here.
And he's showing us
the way to the bottom.
And when we got to the bottom,
they hadn't forgotten us.
They had left a translator
and my mother there.
And he pointed up and showed
her where we had been.
And the place where we had
been trying to slide down,
we were less than 10 feet
away from going over a cliff.
And when I saw that,
we both just kind of
lost it at that point.
We knew that we would not
have been able to get down.
And the four of us
are walking together,
and the man just
stopped walking.
And we took a few more
steps and turned around
and the man was gone.
There were no footprints.
We could see our
footprints in the sand
and couldn't see his from the
point where he had disappeared.
There was nowhere
for him to have gone.
There were no trees around.
There were no cars, no
buildings, nothing, nowhere
where he could have gone.
TEDDY BART: Do angels, do
they appear in human form?
JOHN RONNOR: Some
people say that,
yes, they saw an
angel that appeared
to them as a human being.
And they've determined that
it was an angel, because
of the many uncanny
circumstances that surrounded
the incident of intervention.
The term, angel,
is so loosely used
that for all practical
purposes, you really
have to investigate to find
out what a person has in mind
when they say they
have an angel.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): We
hear countless stories
of angels who warn and rescue
people in their time of need.
But I also found stories of
angels tending to another kind
of need, the deep
need for comfort,
which people face when grieving
the loss of someone dear
to them.
I spent the last three months
of my father's life with him,
and we became very, very close.
There were many nights when
he would ask me to come over
and be with him that night.
And he was in extreme pain
because the cancer had just
run through this entire body.
The night that he
died, I was in bed
mulling over the day's
activities and the feelings,
and trying to process
how I was going
to react when word finally
came that my father had died.
It certainly couldn't
be a surprise,
because we knew it was just
a matter of any minute now.
And I sort of went through those
feelings and emotions right
before I drifted off to sleep.
I was awakened by the spirit
that zoomed right over
from my feet, right
over the top of me
and hovered on the left side
of my bed at my shoulders.
It was sort of a
glowing, misty cloud
is the best way to describe it.
But I immediately
recognized it as my father.
He was emanating these
absolute feelings of well
being and joy and freedom.
While my father was
hovering beside my bed,
and we were just sort of basking
in each other's presence,
feeling each other's feelings,
the best way to describe it
a connection opened up
off to the distance.
I could feel an awareness off
and to a further off place,
I could hear other beings
talking amongst themselves.
And they were what I
would describe as angels.
But my father turned and
looked in that direction,
and then he looked back
at me and acknowledged
and immediately said,
"They're calling me now,
and I have to go."
And when he said that, there
was more than just that.
There was this complete
sense of mission
and understanding that he had of
where it was he had to go next.
And that he had to
go with these beings,
and it was time for him to
proceed to this next realm.
It was back in 1984
when I received word
that my sister had expired.
I immediately got in my car and
started to drive to Chicago.
And I was upset with God.
I was asking him why,
Lord, why my sister?
She had everything to live for.
20 years old.
And I was so mad, just
bitter underneath the skin.
And I got to the
funeral, I was still
asking the same
questions, Lord why,
why did you take my sister?
Then a few weeks went past.
It was March the 25th.
I was in my room, and all of
a sudden this light appeared.
It was a big, bright light.
Something I've
never seen before,
and I've never been
able to see again.
And out of the light, a
voice said to me, "Fear not.
Your sister's in
a better place."
And the voice said that
sometimes God has to take
the best flower in the garden.
And at that moment, I could
feel all of the tension,
all of the anger,
just leave my body.
It seem to be real clear.
Just a clear, bright light,
something like a new day.
And it really was
a new day for me,
because it was really
my Resurrection.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER):
Whether the angel appears
through a touch, a smell,
a mysterious nudge,
a sudden insight, through an
average looking human being,
or in a blinding flash of
light, all these stories
have one thing in common,
the players come away
believing something happened.
Someone was there.
I am not alone.
According to all the great and
lasting religions of the world,
angels have been with us
from the beginning of time.
Angels unseen for
the most part have
always been heavily involved
in the world's unfolding.
DR. DAVID KIDD: In
the New Testament,
we see the appearance
of angels at almost
every significant
moment of the story.
Angels are involved in
announcing Jesus's birth.
They attend to him
at His temptation.
They appear in a variety of
His encounters in the world.
They are the voice
which first proclaims
His Resurrection, which
is this touchstone
of the Christian faith.
Judaism being the oldest
of the Western religions,
has gone through a
whole series of changes
from the Biblical time to
modern religious belief
as far as philosophy and
theology are concerned.
But the concept of
angels has always
been a presence, no matter
what period of time you study,
or what period of liturgy you
appreciate within Jewish life.
In the Bible, in the
Tanakth as we call it,
the concept of angels were to be
servants or assistants to God.
The Hebrew word angel is malakh
and malakh also carries with it
the meaning of messenger.
They were the
go-betweens between God
and the people of the Earth.
There were two angels in the
earliest biblical tradition
whose power and authority
have never been questioned up
until modern times, and
these with the archangels
as they're referred to
Gabriel and Michael.
Even their names
are Hebrew words.
Michael meaning in
Hebrew, cocktail
Michael, who is like God?
And Gabriel, Gabriel,
the strength of God,
or God is my strength.
These two figures had, amongst
their other responsibilities,
the privilege of praising God.
In Islam we have what we
call the Articles of Faith.
We believe in the wonderful God.
Believe in the
prophets, the books,
the messengers, and the angels.
Angels play a very significant
role in the Islamic faith.
We learn in the
Holy Koran Jibrayil,
which means Gabriel in
Arabic, he brought the Koran
to the prophet.
He would cite a
part, the prophet
would remember that part, and he
would teach it to his follows.
And then Gabriel would
come and recite more,
and he would teach
it to his followers.
And this went on for 23 years.
And then the Koran, it tells us
that every person has guardian
angels as guardians over them.
And they write down
every deed that they do.
Make sure you do the right
thing and say the right thing.
Because you will receive a
book on the day of Judgement,
and that book will
have every deed
that you have ever done in it.
So do be careful.
Well, first of all,
we believe that angels
are personal, spiritual
beings who are non-corporeal.
They're like human
beings in the sense
that they have
intelligence and free will.
They can know and love.
But they're unlike
humans in the sense
that they don't have
physical bodies.
So they share with
us a common bond,
we're all creatures
of God, and yet
they are distinct human beings.
I guess that there are two kind
of uniquely Catholic beliefs,
if I can put it that way.
One we do emphasize
on our Feast Days
a focus on guardian angels.
And it's the Catholic
belief that the angels
guard each one of us.
They protect us.
The other major Feast
Day that we celebrate
in the Catholic
tradition would be
the Feast of the
Archangels, of Michael,
of Gabriel, and Raphael.
They're called
archangels because they
have special important
roles to play
in God's plan of salvation.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): So
it seems that if we believe
in anything spiritual, then it
only makes good common sense
to believe in angels.
But are these heavenly
beings only for the Earth
so-called believing population?
Dr. Raymond Moody is
renowned for his research
into near death experiences
reported by people who
were declared
clinically dead and then
were medically resuscitated.
Angel sightings are commonly
reported in these near death
experiences.
When I was a medical student
in the pediatrics rotation,
I was in the Pediatrics
Endocrinology Clinic,
and this was long before
there was any publicity
about near death
experiences, and nobody
knew that I was studying them.
And I was talking
with a little boy who
was 11 years old who said,
"Doctor, a year ago I had
a crisis, and I almost died."
I think he said that he died.
And he said, "And when
I died, I went up."
He described this
ascension and into a place
of beautiful light, and he
said that he was surrounded
by flocks of angels, and that
he was seeing all these angels
all around him as he went up.
And I talked with
him about that,
and I asked him for more detail.
And it was clear that he was
not talking about winged beings,
like he might have
seen in a child's book,
but more in terms of beings
of light, beautiful people
who were full of love and
who were there to help him.
Another case that really
I remember quite vividly
is a woman who wrote to
me, actually, after she had
seen an article on my research.
And then I later talked
to her at length.
And she described how when
she was dying in the hospital,
and she got out of her body
and she looked down and saw
the doctor's trying to
resuscitate her and so on,
and she said immediately she was
in the presence of two beings
who she later identified
as her guiding angels.
And I thought this was
particularly interesting,
because this woman came
from a Protestant background
and the notion of
a guardian angel
was not something that was
in her religious tradition.
But she said that even though
she had never seen these people
that she had a sense of
great familiarity and warmth
and love from them.
And there was this
slight buzzing at the ear,
and I felt myself
pop out of the body.
I don't know how I came out.
I was just suddenly
out of the body.
And I sat down on the
head of the bed a minute
to look around.
Then I felt myself
float up to the ceiling,
and I was looking down.
And they said, she's gone.
And I couldn't believe it, and
I thought, well, who's gone?
And I was trying to
look down to see.
And I felt presences with
me of guardian angels
is what they were, but
I called them guides.
DR. MOODY: And I remember her
mentioning to me that at times
of stress after that when
things didn't go quite right,
that she would always go
back in her mind and heart
to that point, and to
think about those people
that she had been there with.
JOAN WESTER ANDERSON: People
sometimes say, why do you think
there's so much going on now?
Well, I don't know.
Maybe there is an
end of an era coming.
But I have kind of
come to the conclusion
that there's a lot of spiritual
activity going on now, both
the negative and the positive.
Because we see every
kind of depravity
that there is right now, and
many accepted as just routine.
But yet, at the same
time, we're hearing
all these magnificent encounters
and people's moments of grace.
I think I've been touched
by a heavenly presence.
I'm beginning to understand
that God loves me.
My child seems to be so
aware of spiritual things.
There is an angel that
you can connect with
and will talk to you that
will allow you to be positive.
And you don't have to give
up on life just because you
had a bad experience.
It's been very comforting
to think that there
is a presence that is with me.
And can be there, and can
help me, even when I don't
know to ask for help myself.
And to realize that there
are angelic beings, as well
as other previously deceased
relatives or friends, that
in some way can help us
through this thing called life,
it's exciting.
It's what's next?
That was an angel.
That was an angel and I
really believe that it was.
Even if it's not what people--
even if somebody doesn't
believe that it was actually
an angel from heaven,
I believe that it was definitely
someone that God sent.
If nothing else, it's as
close to scientific proof
I'll ever have is there's
something between worldly,
as we know it, and
heaven as we envision it.
I say there's something in the
middle called guardian angels.
And now that I have three
children and a husband
that I love very much,
it's also very comforting
to know that if that
presence is here for me,
then it's also
available for them.
PAM KIDD (VOICEOVER): And so
the angels seem to tell us,
we are not alone.
Are they not messengers sent
by a Supreme Being, offered
as protectors, as guides, as
benefactors whose only earthly
purpose is to care for us?
Here unseen, are they hovering
near waiting to be listened to,
waiting to be called on?
Hoping to guide us over
the rough spots of living,
ready to lead us into
new and wonderfully
evolved levels of life on Earth?
And yet, we've barely
scratched the surface.
There's so much left to
know, and so very many
angel stories yet to be told.
[MUSIC PLAYING]